There are millions of guns throughout the United States. People obviously have different views
on how one should properly use and gun and why. Unfortunately, it seems that these guns very
often fall into the wrong hands and tragedies start to get bigger and bigger each year. For our
country to be safe, there need to be stricter gun laws. It may not be a saving grace, but an
attempt must be made in the right direction in order to see lees heartbreak caused by weapons
that should not be legal in the first place.
 Written by Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, “ Gun violence touches every
segment of our society. It increases the probability of deaths and incidents of domestic violence,
raises the likelihood of fatalities by those who intend to injure others and among those who
attempt suicide, places children and young people at special risk and disproportionally affects
communities of color.”There are three distinctive types of guns. The handgun, a rifle and a
shotgun and from there, they are divided into semi-automatic guns and fully-automatic guns.
 Semi-automatic guns are guns that shoot only one bullet every time the trigger is pulled, ejects
the shell of said bullet and automatically loads the next bullet. For a fully-automatic gun, at the
single pull of the trigger, multiple rounds are shot at a continuous rate (Agresti, Smith & Guerra,
2017). One extremely important aspect of better gun control is a mass shooting. There is no
clear definition of a mass shooting since it varies from person to person but it is often classified
by the number of deaths and injuries. Depending on the number of people killed, it could be a
regular shooting, a mass shooting, a mass killing, or a massacre. According to the Washington
Post, a person is considered a mass murderer if they killed four or more and one event. In 2013,
federal statutes define a mass killing as three or more being killed (Ingraham, 2015).
 The amount of mass shootings this country has experienced in the last 10 years is sickening.
Every other year or to someone comes into possession of a gun they should never have been
able to get. Then whether or not that person is in their right mind or not, they decide to not only
harm others but to deprive them of their lives. About four months ago, on October 2, 2017, the
deadliest shooting and massacre in modern U.S history occurred. Stephen Paddock legally
obtained 23 semi-automatic guns and over 1000 rounds of ammunition. He had about six
different types of rifles that he then modified to become fully automatic-rifles with bump stocks.
Paddock then took those weapons to an outdoor music festival in Las Vegas, Nevada. There he
proceeded to shoot out of his room window on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel, into a
crowd of over 22,000 people. In over a span of 10 to 15 minutes, Paddock killed over 58 and
injured over 500 others ( National Post, 2017).
 On November 15, 2017, a month after the Vegas shooting, Devon Patrick Kelly gunned down
26 people and wounded 20 others as they attended a church service in Sutherland Springs,
Texas. Kelly was in the Air Force until 2014 when he was discharged for bad conduct. He
received bad conduct because, in 2012, he was charged with assault by his wife and child.
From there, he was jailed for the year and had his rank reduced. Despite having a past
conviction, Kelly was able to legally obtain an AR-15 rifle due to the Air Force failing to enter his
charges into the federal database. When he entered that church, Kelly killed 25 people ages 5
gradesfixer.com
 1 / 4
to 72 and one unborn child (Abdelkader, Williams, & McCausland, 2017). The second deadliest
mass shooting in US history occurred on January 6, 2016 (CNN, 2017). At a nightclub in
Orlando, Florida, Omar Mateen killed 49 people and wounded 53 others. Mateen was
interviewed by the FBI in 2013 and 2014 but due to insignificant information being found, he
was let go. From there he was able to legally obtain an AR-15 assault rifle and a Glock pistol
(Fantz, Karimi, & McLaughlin, 2016).
 On December 14, 2012, Adam Lanza, who was mentally ill, killed 26 people at Sandy Hook
Elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut. Adam Lanza forced his way into an elementary
school with over 700 students present and killed 20 children ages six through seven and 7
teachers. Lanza brought three guns with him, an AR-15, a 10 mm Glock pistol and a 9mm
pistol. He had over 30 rounds of ammunition and reportedly left the fourth gun in the car. It was
also later revealed that Lanza shot his mother multiple times in the head before arriving at the
school (CBS News, 2017).On April 2, 2017, there was a mass shooting at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute in Blacksburg, Virginia. Gunman Seung Hui Cho killed 32 students.
 On December 13, 2005, Cho was ordered to seek outpatient care by a judge due to suicidal
remarks to fellow students. This should have prevented him from purchasing weapons but it did
not. Between the months of February and March, Cho purchased a P-22 pistol online from an
out-of-state dealer, which is illegal, and a 9mm Glock with 50 rounds of ammunition from a
firearms shop (CNN, 2017). All of these precious lives were lost for no reason at all. These
people, these murderers, should not have been able to purchase guns. Many people who own
guns believe that gun control will not help. They believe that creating stricter laws will not stop
anyone from killing, and it won't. That is not the point of creating these laws, it is known that if
one wants to kill they will, but if we are able to prevent guns getting into the hands of people that
should never be near them, possibly saving millions of lives, then it is worth it. “I absolutely
think we should ban assault weapons.
 There is no reason to have assault weapons on the market. Those people are killers; they are
not meant to go hunting” (Abdullah & Brennan, 2012). One of the biggest anti-gun control
arguments is that they will take away the Second Amendment, the right to bear arms. I do not
want to take away your constitutional right, but if there are people that are abusing that right to
do harm, then it creates a problem that must be solved. Noted by Abdullah & Brennan, other
arguments are that the law exploits massacre and tragedies as a way to pass laws and “the
only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun”
 First, as bad as it sounds, it is true. The government uses mass killings as examples when
trying to pass stronger gun laws. But I don't see the issue with that because with this real-life
example of what we are trying to prevent, passing the bill would have no basis or cause.
 Second, this way of thinking gets people killed. Almost every person in the world has heard the
phrase “do not fight fire with fire”, and that is because it's true. No matter how great and heroic
a person thinks it sounds, having this mentality just gets more people killed and that is what we
are trying to prevent. The amount of guns in this country alone is downright mind-boggling
considering certain guns are prohibited in certain states. Stephen Paddock, Omar Mateen, and
James Holmes, the gunman in Aurora movie theater shooting, all used a Colt AR-15 rifle in their
shootings (Nelson, 2016). These rifles are one of the most popular rifles in the country and they
were actually banned at one point. in 1994 they were covered under the Federal Assault
Weapons Ban but it expired in 2004 and since then, they have been labeled and become “a
gradesfixer.com
 2 / 4
mass murderer‘s best friend.” Nelson noted one tremendous problem in trying to ban this gun,
is that the greatest percentage of gun homicides are by handguns. This poses the argument
that since the gun does not kill as many people as handguns, it should not be banned.
 Once researched, the statistics about guns are extremely shocking and should be enough to
convince any anti-gun control person that these laws are needed but that’s wishful thinking.
According to the CDC National Vital Statistics Report, suicide by a gun makes up almost 2/3 of
all gun-related deaths in the U.S (SafeHome, n.p). Furthering this report a study in California by
handgun purchasers found that in the first year after the purchase of a handgun suicide was the
leading cause of death among those purchasers (Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence,
n.p). Another issue with guns in the house is that children are usually also present in that house
and those guns are not in a lock box. A federal government study of unintentional shootings
found that 80% of those shootings resulted from shots fired by children under the age of six
(Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, n.p).
 Another report shows that 73% of kids ages nine and under know the location of their parent's
firearms and 3% admitted that they handled them without their parent's knowledge. This proves
how much bigger the issue is, that it affects children but it also proves that children are always
aware (Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, n.p). One of the biggest issues with trying
to pass stricter and better gun control laws is that each state has their own laws and their own
jurisdiction. Nevada law does not require gun owners to have a permit to purchase or carry rifles
and shotguns. They are also not required to lyse those said weapons and can also buy guns
from a dealer or website (ThinkProgress. N.p). In the state of Texas, Texans are not required to
have a permit to purchase, registration of the purchased gun or a licensing ( NRA-ILA, 2014).
Just Recently, Texas governor Dan Patrick is allowed Texans, once licensed, to carry loaded
handguns, open or concealed, in church.
 “Allowing guns into the church can make the right person a hero,” said Patrick (Varathan,
2017). This is a month following the Sutherland Springs Church shooting. States like New York
prohibit long guns, such as rifles, while Arizona and Wyoming do not prohibit any type of gun
whereas Illinois and the District of Columbia prohibit all types of guns. Reported by In 2012, in
the state of Colorado, the Supreme Court allowed students and faculty to carry concealed guns
on college campuses after overturning the gun ban at Colorado University (Cage & Dance,
2013). There are also many loopholes where people purchase guns. Reported by Cage &
Dance, a person can no longer be eligible to own a gun but because there is no waiting period
or reference checks between the issuance of the permit or license and sale, they can walk away
with a gun they rightfully shouldn't have. There has been a constant fight for the passing a gun
control laws, especially after shootings. In late 2017, the family members and parents of the
victims of Sandy Hook argued that the companies that manufactured and sold the military-style
assault rifle should be held responsible for the attack. They are claimed that Remington, a gun
manufacturer, made a mistake by permitting untrained civilians access to a military style
weapon and that it is advertising to troubled young men who are likely to commit violent crimes.
 The only problem with this is that in 2005, Congress passed the Protection of Lawful
Commerce in Arms Act. This blocks lawsuits by providing industry-wide immunity from blame
when a gun company’s product is used in a crime. Unfortunately, when the case went to state
court, it was dismissed but the families are not losing hope and appealed for a trial with a jury
(Altimari & Owens).“That one man can legally obtain enough firepower to kill at least 58 and
worn more than 500 people in 10 minutes clearly indicates that are laws I seriously flawed or
gradesfixer.com
 3 / 4
lacking” (Ingraham, 2015). To ensure better gun control laws, we need more mental health
screenings, thorough background checks and longer, more secure waiting period before getting
a gun. And during that waiting period, a prospective gun owner must take gun safety courses
and be able to pass. I also think to limit the sales of guns at shows and increasing the use of
trigger locks and lock boxes with be extremely beneficial.
 Despite everything written in this essay if someone has enough intent and determination to kill
they will be able to find a gun if needed but despite that awareness, we must at least try to
decrease the possibilities of more gun violence. We as a country can not continue to let lives be
taken because of inhuman and senseless acts.

When the founding fathers were organizing the framework of the United States Constitution in the late eighteenth century, the amount of power the national government would possess was an issue that came with much debate. The two parties of the day were the Federalists, who advocated a strong national government with an intricate system of checks and balances, and the Anti-Federalists, who promoted strong state and local governments that included small republics to keep the local communities in check. .
John Jay, a former Federalist, opposed this idea while framing the Constitution, saying a country "Should never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien sovereignties." As one can tell, the parties rarely ever agreed with one another, so the Constitution was created through numerous compromises between the opposing sides. Today, the debate goes on between the contemporary political parties; the Republicans and Democrats. While the Democrats favor a large federal government to equalize and homogenize policies across state borders, the Republicans believe governmental power and resources should be kept close to the people, through their state and community representatives. .
One contemporary debate that represents these contradictory beliefs is the ongoing dispute over gun control. While the Democrats strive for stricter gun laws to better preserve society, the Republicans oppose gun control legislation, and use the Second Amendment to the Constitution, the right to bear arms, as justification for their beliefs. .
A solution to the gun control debate would be to adopt Federalist ideals by creating a national law that requires private gun sellers to possess a license and buyers to initially complete a background check, a resolution that would rid the country of illegal firearms and help restore peace to society yet again.
Ever since the adolescent years of the American nation, guns have been used among the people as means for protection and hunting.The twenty-first century, however, has brought a steady rise in crime within society, which has escalated the debate over gun legislation. As stated before, the Second Amendment granted the right of a qualified citizen to own a gun. This modern debate has not been over the legitimacy of that amendment, but whether existing gun laws are sufficient, or if stricter gun laws need to be imposed. Over the years, there have been three major federal statutes that have regulated the possession of firearms. One was the National Firearms Act of 1934, which made it difficult to obtain lethal assault weapons, such as machine guns. It also placed heavy taxes on all aspects of the weapons' production and distribution process.
The second vital statute was the Gun Control Act of 1968, which mostly required all persons manufacturing, importing, or selling firearms as a business to be federally licensed. It also required gun dealers to maintain records of all commercial gun sales.3 The third, the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, required background checks for firearm transfers between federally licensed firearm dealers and non-licensed persons. Though such an act placed restrictions on licensed, regulated sales of guns, there still remains a problem: the government has yet to enact a law that places restrictions on private, unregulated sales. For example, gun shows around the country serve as the largest marketplace for private sellers who can easily connect with customers looking to avoid detection. Without a government law that monitors these private, unlicensed sales, guns are constantly falling into the hands of potential ex-convicts who are looking for an easy source of guns. This "gun show loophole"" has resulted in liberals protesting the neglect of a national law to further restrict these private dealers.
A solution to my problem has nothing to do with modifying the second amendment.

Arguments on Gun Control
With the Second Amendment giving American citizens the right to bear arms, and approximately fifty percent of Americans owning some form of a firearm, issues involving the ownership and possession of guns have led to heated debates in American society.  Most notably is the issue of gun control. Many feel that the some form of gun regulation is necessary in order to lower the level of gun related violence in the country.  On the other hand, the opponents of gun control feel that it would be an infringement on their second amendment rights.  The outcome and extent of gun control has strong political implications because it basically determines the present day meaning of the Second Amendment.  While each side has strong points to their arguments, one quote by writer Michael Warfel basically sums up the need for gun control.  He writes, “ an individual’s right to own and bear arms must be balanced by the greater social needs of a society” (18).  Today, based on the number of crimes and violent acts committed with guns, society needs more gun control.  
Issues and policies relating to gun control in the United States date back to the late 1800s where the supreme court made the decision that the “right of bearing arms for a lawful purpose is not a right granted by the Constitution” followed up with a decision that states are “free to regulate the rights of citizens to bear arms” (Maguire 60).  Later in the 1930’s president Roosevelt tried to pass legislation on gun regulations, but they were defeated in congress.  Calls for gun control have usually followed major and highly publicized crimes and attacks involving guns, such as the assassinations of John and Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1960’s.  Also, the shooting of John Lennon and the attempt on President Reagen, as well as the recent string of shootings in American schools.  Following the assassinations, the Gun Control Act of 1968 was passed, with its central aim being a national standard on how and to whom guns were sold.  This was added on to in 1994 with the Brady Act, which required gun dealers to run background checks on gun buyers before selling them (Rosen 61). 
While there is obviously some gun regulation currently in affect in the United States, pro gun control advocates still call for more, while anti gun control advocates strongly oppose them.  Along with a number of other things, the two opposing views are backed by different interpretations of the Second Amendment.  The Amendment reads, “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed” (Maguire 57).  Interest groups supporting gun regulation tend to concentrate on the first part of the amendment where the key word is “militia”.  In focusing on this part, gun control advocates basically feel that the right to own and posses guns lies with the militia, not the individual (58).  The gun regulations they call for include national standards on purchasing firearms, such as criteria for who is eligible to purchase and own guns, as well as longer waiting periods and more in depth background checks, with tougher penalties for those who do not abide.  In addition, they call for laws banning specific weapons, such as handguns, and various other assault weapons.  Those against gun control, often led by the NRA, strongly oppose the new policies pro gun control advocates are trying to enact.  For anti-gun controllers the key word in the second amendment is “people”, found in the second part of the sentence. They take the term in an individual sense, therefore giving the individual the right to own and posses arms (58).  The new laws and regulations being advocated by pro gun controllers give those in opposition the feeling that their rights involving guns are slowly being taken away, and worry how far it will go. 	
So is gun control necessary? In answering this, one must take into consideration that the United States has the most violence of all Western societies.  By simply looking at the statistics, notably those that are gun related, most anyone can get the idea that gun regulations are needed.  For example, in 1997, 32,436 Americans were killed in gun- related incidents, as compared to the 33,651 that were killed in the Korean War (Rosen 50). Each day, on average, around 80 people will die from gun-related violence, approximately 12 of them being children.  In one study, the yearly gun-related death totals came out consisting of 13,000 homicides, 17,500 suicides, and 1,000 accidental deaths.  All this gruesome death and violence, and those numbers do not even include the number of injuries suffered as a result of guns.  As one analyst from the Violence Policy Center said, “ The more accessibility to guns you have, the higher the rates of gun-related death and injury” (50).  This seems to be the truth; the chances of a gun related death or injuries are considerably less if a gun is not present, and gun control laws aim at keeping those guns from being present.  	
Anti-gun control advocates provide their strongest argument by sticking to the United States Constitution.  They claim regulating guns is an infringement on their rights as American citizens because they read the Second Amendment as giving them the right to bear arms.  However, regardless of how the Amendment is interpreted, the need for gun control is still there.  The framers of the Constitution could have never imagined the amount of violence in today’s society.  The anti–gun activists counter this by giving the need for self-defense from criminals along with the threat of tyranny, it is their Constitutional right to form a militia and protect themselves.  However, in one case the Supreme Court ruled that the National Guard is the militia spoken of in the Constitution, therefore the right to own guns does not lie with individual citizens.  Gun control for individual security is also a major part of their argument in needing to own guns.  However, by again looking at studies and statistics, their argument seems to be invalid.  For example, statistics have shown that those who attempt to use their guns in self-defense are often ineffective, and are 8 times more likely to be killed than those who do not make any effort to defend themselves are (79).  Another study has shown that “a firearm in the home is 43 times more likely to be used for suicide or a murder than self-defense” (Rosen 50).  The extent to which guns are used as they were meant to be as stated in the Constitution, is far outweighed by the extent to which they are used for violent acts.  Rather than providing reason for the right to bear arms, this apparent misuse of guns provides more then enough reason for gun regulation.  	
The lack of clarity and ambiguity of the Second Amendment are much of the reason for the gun-control debate.  If the Amendment were more clear one way or the other, “guns are for militias only,” or “guns are for the individuals,” laws and regulations would be much easier to make.  However, this is not the case, but it could be soon enough.  One case making its way through the federal court system involves a man who was arrested for possessing a gun while under a restraining order.  The judge in the case threw out the charge because he said it violated the man’s Second Amendment right (Cannon 24).  The case is major because it has the potential to make it to the Supreme Court, and if it does it will force the court to rule one way or the other.  If they uphold the decision, giving the individual the right to bear arms, as one law professor writes, “the hands of the American people would be tied up in regulating arms” (24).  If the decision is overturned, the courts will “define the limit of the law” (24).  The result is an answer to who has the right to bear arms.   	
In addition to giving a look at the role courts can and do play in politics, the gun control debate demonstrates some of the effects of interest groups on American politics.  The whole gun control debate is for the most part brought to the government by pro gun control interest groups, and then heavily opposed by its opponents.  Interest groups from both sides fundraise and support candidates that will propose and support bills and policies that agree with their interests.  In this way the gun control debate can have an effect on who is currently in office, whether it be Congress or the President, and who is in office is key as to whether proposals make it anywhere or not.  Interest groups have kept the issue of gun control in legislation for many years because they lobby candidates and the issue goes back on forth, but makes no real significant progress either way. Money plays a role in debate because of its effect on the ability to lobby candidates.  Much of the NRA’s success in defeating or “watering down” gun control bills is due to the amount of money they spend on supporting candidates to get them in office, and lobbying congressmen already there.   
Gun control is a number of things: a heated issue in American society, an excellent example of interests groups and their affect on the three branches of government, and most importantly it is the best way to solve the nation’s problem with crime and violence related to guns.  The NRA claims the problem with violence and guns is not the guns, but with societal values and broken homes, and that’s what needs to be fixed.  However, as long as crimes are being committed with guns, ways of stopping those guns from ever being there should be in effect.  In addition, gun regulation seems likely to be a much speedier process than teaching American society morals and mending broken homes. 

Handguns and other firearms have a long tradition in American civilization. The right to bear arms is an American right featured in the second Amendment of the Constitution. In the 18th century, when the constitution was written, times were different; there was a need for armed citizens to insure the safety of the society as a whole. Contemporarily the police department preserves the safety of society and the need for armed citizens is out of date. The founding fathers of the Constitution could presumably never imagine the horrendous outcome of their actions. Every year too many lives are claimed as the result of the American government’s inability to fully face up to effects of the issue. Compared to other western countries that have considerably stricter gun control laws America is still viewed as "The Wild-Wild West". 
The growing gun related death toll in the U.S. has to come to a turning point. Stripping away the constitutional right to bear arms might have the effect that only criminals will have access to guns. It is important to understand that in a society where both criminals and law abiding citizens have access to guns the likeliness of an innocent person getting shot, when both parties are waving guns, is probably greater than if only criminals have guns. A ban on firearms might not be appealing as a short-term solution but it is important that people don’t limit their thinking to their generation and not think about the safety of their children, grandchildren and the society people are creating today for them to live in. 
The main obstacle in removing firearms from citizens in the U.S. is the second Amendment of the Constitution. It reads: "A well regulated Militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed." The second Amendment can be interpreted as every citizen right to bear arms. However the key word is "Militia", meaning soldiers or defenders of the State. In the late 18th century, when the Constitution was written, times were very different than those of contemporary America. People were scared of possible invasions from Native Americans, the English, and other nationalities. By "a well regulated Militia…" the founding fathers probably meant that citizens could have a muscot standing in the corner just in case anything would happen. Note that the writers of the Constitution added, "a well regulated…" in front of the word Militia. That would most likely reveal a controversy in writing this Amendment, some of the founding fathers might have foreseen the possibility of a misinterpretation of this Amendment.
In the U.S. there are approximately 200 million privately owned guns, which is statistically close to a gun per person and places more than one gun per home on average (O’Donnell 771). In other words, guns are all around. This effects, without a doubt, the whole society structure and the citizens that live within its boundaries. 
The children that live within a gun infested society are going to suffer the consequences. In fact, kids between the ages 16 and 19 have the highest handgun victimization rate among all age groups (O’Donnel 771). It’s not hard to understand why, since there are on average more than one gun per household, kids are likely to find firearm and in some cases even use it. 
In March 1998 two children, 11 and 13 years of age gunned down a total of 13 people in a school in Jonesboro, Arkansas. Of the 13, nine survived and five people, classmates and teacher, died as a result of the shooting (Liesen, Owens). One of the boys had taken two rifles from his grandfather. They positioned themselves about a 100 yards from the schoolyard and when the bell for recession sounded and people started to exit the school building the two boys opened fire. This is a horrendous event that proves that if guns are present within a household or within a family, odds are that kids will know about where they are kept and perhaps even be curious enough to actually use them. 
In October, 1997 a 16 year old boy shot and killed his girlfriend and her best friend while they were exiting a Mississippi school leaving six others wounded (Liesen, Owens). The spontaneity of young children and guns are a lethal combination as illustrated in these two examples. 
In a study made across high schools in Seattle, 47% of males and 22% of females reported that they had easy access to handguns and 11.4% were gun-owning males (O'Donnel 772). The access to guns might prove to be a deadly for both innocent bystanders and the holder of the gun. Children should not be able to own guns. One of the prerequisites for owning a gun should be that the person is responsible enough to own a firearm. Since there are no guarantees for that, guns should only be issued in extensively controlled forms otherwise the government jeopardizes the safety of the people they've sworn to protect. 
In ages 10-14 72%, and in the ages 15-19, 85% of all homicides are committed with firearms. In addition to that 60 % of all suicides among youths is committed with a handgun. The total firearm death rate concerning white males in their teens now exceed natural causes (O’Donnell 771). These are alarming statistics show the brutal reality of firearms in the U.S. 
A study made by the American Psychological Association, Commission on Violence and Youth showed, in a study made in Seattle in 1993, that 6% of males in the 11th grade had at least once brought a handgun to school (O'Donnel 772). More than 1 in 20 had brought a handgun to school, in other words it was quite a common practice among youths. How does that effect the rest of us? Parents might just get the news from police officers that their son or daughter had become victim to a stray bullet while attending history class. 
The lawmakers in the United States are addressing the problem by putting up metal detectors in schools. In the case of metal detectors, officials have realized that preventing the possession of firearms inside the boundary of the school is necessary for the safety of the students and teachers. This is a temporary solution to ever-growing problem. The risk of a student or a teacher getting shot inside the school property has probably been reduced, which is positive. But the fact remains that outside of the school property the risk of being a victimized is growing every year. 
In order for these types of events not to occur legislators and other professionals are emphasizing precautionary actions of the gun owners and most of the time a ban on guns isn’t mentioned. "Why I should be denied the same right my father and grandfather had?" (Skelton). Because times have changed, guns are not solely created and used for hunting anymore, and with today’s technology, in the form of automatic guns and high impact ammunition, guns have become deadlier, which leaves a greater responsibility on the owners. Are people ready for that responsibility?
A quite common phrase is: "Guns don’t kill people, it is the people that pull the trigger." Yes, people do the killing, but does that justify the government providing the citizens with the instruments of death. 
In theory, if all people were to act totally responsibly this dilemma wouldn’t exist. The fact of the matter is that a lot of killings occur when a person’s judgment is clouded by means of drugs or emotions. In these conditions not many people act responsibly, which is a condition for allowing people the right to arm themselves. One of the reasons why governments exist is to protect us from ourselves in times of rage, greed, anger and other emotions for the maintaining equality in society. The government is not protecting the rights of the individual when they are allowing people to own firearms in knowing the consequential price of death and injury that is paid by so many year after year.
International incidents such as the school massacre in Dunblane, Great Britain or the mass shooting in Tasmania, Australia triggered immediate effects in strengthening further the very strict existing gun control laws in their respective countries ("America and Guns" 16). Governments in other western countries usually make adjustments to their gun laws in direct relationship to violent incidents. Massacres like these don’t seem to spark the same enthusiasm among politicians to change any gun control laws significantly.
The fact is that in 1996 two people in New Zealand, 15 in Japan, 30 in Britain, 106 in Canada, 211 in Germany and 9,390 in the U.S.A. were murdered with handguns. There are about 500,000 incidents, from assault to murder, that involve firearms every year and they results in 35,000 deaths, including suicides and accidents, in the U.S. every year ("America and Guns" 16). Compared with other countries the statistics are alarming. It seems as the Americans wants to keep their guns no matter what the price.
The National Rifle Association is the leading pro-gun organization in the United States. On their Internet site they describe many aspects of their organization. An excerpt from the page describing the members of their organization’s common interest reads: 
What members share with every other member is an appreciation of the shooting sports, belief in our constitutional right to keep and bear arms and, most of all, a commitment to safety, responsibility and freedom. (NRA)
Whether or not the NRA are one of the contributing factors or not to the incredibly high firearm death statistics in the U.S., the NRA has very much political power and will do all they can to uphold the second Amendment. The part about the gun organization having a pledge to "safety, responsibility and freedom" doesn’t make sense. In a survey conducted by John Hopkins Center for Gun and Policy Research and the University of Chicago revealed that most American citizens would like to see guns more strictly regulated. That means that not only do other international governments see a direct relationship between guns and death but even the American people. 
In 1991, one year’s misuse of guns claimed as many lives as the Korean War. One and a half year’s total death toll from guns equaled the number of dead in Vietnam. Nine years of deaths due to misuses of firearms equals the entire death toll for World War II (O’Donnel 771). Do people in the U.S. really understand how many lives that are being wasted every year because of the misuse of firearms? 
By 1998 legislation in 31 states, 9 since 1995 has passed laws issuing concealed weapons licenses to citizens ("America and Guns" 18). Some experts claim that letting people obtain licenses for carrying a gun while walking around in the streets is the cheapest way in lowering the horrendous statistics. Other experts claim that arming people is never a good answer to this problem because it adds to the risk of people getting shot in anger. Actually it doesn’t really matter what the experts derive out of the situation; the scariest detail is that legislators in these states have come to the conclusion that the most effective way to make America safer is to carry guns in the streets. 
A study of the murder rate in Washington D.C. showed that within three years of the passage of a law prohibiting the sale of handguns in the city the murder rate dropped by 25% (Kruschke 22). The state of South Carolina and the city of Boston experienced similar results when stricter gun control laws were recently enforced. In Boston the homicide rate dropped by 39% and in South Carolina the murder rate dropped by 28% (Kruschke 23). These are just some example of cities and states that have realized that strict gun control is one way of decreasing high murder rates.
According to a survey conducted by the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research revealed that the majority of Americans would like to see guns more tightly regulated ("Fire Control"). Let’s face it, a shooting is national news in most western countries but in the U.S. it is merely an every day occurrence that often doesn’t even get national coverage by the media. The American public is feeling the horrendous effects of violence that the second Amendment brings and many realize that something has to be done to decrease the annual death toll due to guns.
The Gun Control Act of 1968 was attempt by the government to restrict the sale of guns by making sellers of guns licensed and prohibited the sale of guns or ammunition to people that are convicted felons, minors, drug users, illegal aliens or people who have been discharged from the military. This Act was passed during the wake of the assassinations of Dr. Martin Luther King and Senator Robert Kennedy. It was huge reaction to a growing usage of handguns in the U.S. The legislators figured out that the liberty of bearing arms wasn’t for everyone. Gun Control Act of 1968 has very likely contributed to a lowering the number of deaths each year than the alternative of not having laws that regulate the possession and distribution of guns. Since then things haven’t become better and 30 years of people shooting each other legislators are bound to realize that the personal liberty of bearing arms doesn’t need to be modified but to be cancelled once and for all.
One common argument in the debate about gun control is that if guns are banned then cars will also have to be banned because cars are also responsible for many deaths each year. The truth is that the usage for cars and guns are totally. The purpose of cars is transportation and guns to launch a bullet into a target. Yes, many accidents occur with cars every year that claims the lives of many innocent people but it is very seldom that people are being hurt intentionally by drivers of cars or other vehicles. Guns nevertheless are very often used as an intentional device for killing or harming another individual. It is important to focus on the easiness of pointing a gun in a direction and pulling the trigger, it doesn’t take very long time and it might just claim the lives of one or more persons. There is not much time for second thoughts and not much time for people to react. If someone were to do intentionally murder one or more people with a car the event would take longer time, which leaves more time for th
e person behind the wheel to think over his or her decision. Not to mention the person or persons intended of being murdered have a lot more time to react to a speeding car than a bullet. There are a lot of things that can be used to mu